yo
hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
i hope you all are doing well welcome
back welcome back
oh tonight's a banger folks i don't know
how else to explain it other than it is
a banger probably hands down
the most important class that we'll have
yeah i'm gonna say it's probably the
most important class that we have it's
time to start gearing up for the hunt to
get into it to learn all the secrets
that i've learned over the past 10 years
they're gonna help you get a job i'm
gonna try my best to condense them into
tonight and into thursday's
class
i'm glad you're here
this is stuff
this is stuff that's helped hundreds of
folks get jobs this is the stuff folks
don't want you to know
it's focus we're gonna make some folks
mad tonight
i'm gonna get some emails after tonight
i'm gonna get a few calls
it's the secrets i'm spilling it all
everything i got i'm putting into this
so
tonight
we got a lot of fun stuff to get into a
lot of
wonderful tips and tricks for when it
comes to
how to interview
how to get a job how to do all these
things they're gonna open up as many
doors as possible
for you
to get a wonderful job as a software
engineer
no check-in tonight no check-in tonight
if you
read the discord message i just asked
you to follow
one of my dearest colleagues stephanie
we call them the fairy job mother at rc
a lot of what i've learned about how to
interview and the process of working
with so many hiring partners comes from
what they what they've shared with me
what they've taught me and what i've
seen them put into practice time and
time again
so i just wanted to make sure that we
made that known that uh this this is uh
somebody i think you should definitely
be following uh and it's definitely
someone that has helped so many folks
get jobs and so instead of a check-in i
said let's just follow them because i
know that it'll it'll it'll be a
it'll be one of the better things you do
this week
already
cool we always like to start off with
some questions we also start off with
some questions and so uh my question of
the day was
how many applications
how many applications have you submitted
over your years like job applications
how many
600 or so what
wow dozens 40 200
2 000
10 50 300
500-ish
3k 4k what
wow all right folks
whoo
we got we we we've done a lot of
applying in the past but today
we learn a slightly different way
this is wild
a lot too many to count
hundreds
i love it
wow that's a lot folks
nah i don't think so i i think this is i
think this is real for a lot of folks
this is a lot
that's a lot
all right shellcodes hey thank you for
the raid hope you're doing well thanks
for coming through
we're just getting started tonight or
we're running a class on how to get a
job
dishing out all the secrets i've gotten
over the past 10 years to help folks get
jobs hope you had a good stream hope
you're up to some good stuff tonight
cool all right so we've had a lot of
folks that have submitted a lot of
applications
and uh
unfortunately this is something i've
seen a lot with my students
and it's something that i've seen
uh with
folks that are trying to get jobs in
tech
melody dev hey thank you for the get to
subs thank you for being here hope
you're doing well
i've seen a lot of folks go into this
process
without a plan
i've seen a lot of folks go into this
process
with some hopes and some dreams
i've seen some folks go into this
process and they wander for months
with nothing happening
you can't go into this practice you
can't go into the hunt you can't go into
your interview season like an accident
no wandering no getting lost
we're gonna have all the bangers the
tips the tricks the individual things
they're gonna help you get a job and it
starts today
it starts
today
meaning that we're gonna cover a lot of
stuff
a lot of stuff that you're gonna have to
start putting into practice
and this is the difference maker when it
comes to getting
a job
so many folks hyper focus on just the
raw coding skills and i'm here to tell
you that's not it
the things that we cover tonight
are going to be the things that actually
help you secure a job
and this is not the ramblings of one
person's perspective this is something
that i've learned
that i've learned through my work at
resilient coders i work at general
assembly across thousands of companies
thousands of companies we've talked to
thousands of companies that we've worked
with
hundreds of folks that have gotten jobs
so i'm gonna do my best to condense all
that knowledge all that learning all the
things and people that we've talked to
into this one class
now i haven't done it alone i have an
amazing team at resilient coders that
has helped me do all these things for
the past five plus years
stephanie who i just shared with you all
here
has put a lot of this work in has worked
tirelessly talking with hundreds of
companies figuring out what they want
what they need and
understanding their process
that's the key here
is that every company has a process of
how you're going to move through the
interviews how you're going to pass what
we're going to call
the sniff test
and each company is different but they
share a lot of similarities and so what
we're doing tonight is we're saying all
right we know that we're going to apply
nay get referred to
these companies and if we do all these
things right
we stand a really good chance of getting
through that interview process and
getting an offer so condensing what i've
learned condensing what my colleague
stephanie has learned condensing uh what
what lexi another person on my team
whose sole job is just to get hiring
partners in the door they literally all
day long talking to companies talking to
hiring partners getting them in the door
getting them to show up to talk to our
students at resilient coders all that
knowledge
condensed into this class
and so
just want to put that out there
right that this is this is this is not
just my
well i guess this is what it's going no
this is in the game
on the block
figuring this all out over the past 10
years into this class so
we're gonna have to cover a lot
it's a lot of stuff that we're gonna i'm
gonna start asking you to do but no this
is the real work
and so i i have a i have a quote on the
slides today normally it's rap lyrics
but i got a quote on the slides and it's
one of the most
important quotes that i share with you i
share a lot of poetry with you i share a
lot of rap lyrics with you i share a lot
of motivational videos with you but this
might be one of the most important ones
it comes from a dr eric thomas video
that i've actually shared in the past
and uh
they have a saying that's in this video
and they said all men are created equal
some work harder in pre-season so i'm
going to change a little bit all people
are created equal
some work harder in pre-season
i can't tell you how many folks learn
how to code and then get mad when they
don't get a job because they didn't put
in the work during the pre-season it's
not about the code it's about the work
that you start doing tonight that lays
the foundation that lays the springboard
that's going to enable you to jump into
a job and if you do not do these things
that we cover tonight do not expect to
get a job
i know it's a very bold statement but
it's something i believe in my heart of
hearts you might get lucky great if you
do
but tonight we're talking about opening
as many
doors as possible
so you can get those opportunities
coming your way and lock down the job
all people are created equal some work
harder in pre-season this is your
pre-season we got to put in the work and
i've worked with a lot of different
folks
i don't care if you don't have a degree
i don't care where you're coming from i
don't care if you're a returning citizen
i do not care who you are i've worked
with a lot of different people
and they've all been able to get jobs
when they put in this work
some will listen to me tonight
and you'll go on for the rest of your
life
not doing the things that we talk about
tonight
you'll see opportunity pass you by
and i want you to remember
i want you to remember that i told you
this if you do not do these things
your chances of getting a job become way
more difficult it's a lot of hard work
we're about to sign up for but it makes
it
possible it makes it possible
triple action clear eyes hey thank you
for the five get the subs thank you for
being here
all right
harder than js
yes
it's harder than js it's harder than oop
but it's not technical
i don't care how good you are at
javascript
i don't care how good
you are at oop it doesn't matter when it
comes time to get a job
it just doesn't
is this work and it's it's not hard it's
a lot that's it that it's not hard it's
a lot it's things that we have to do
every single day from now until we get
the offer
right
it's the stuff that we have to do every
single day from now until we get the
offer that makes it
so that we can get to the nerds and then
have our javascript and oop shine out
but i don't care how good you were at
javascript i don't care how good you are
at the front end i don't care how good
you're at oop it doesn't matter
what matters about getting the job and
opening as many doors as possible is
this stuff tonight
rock man welcome
all right let's get into i set the stage
let's get into it
all right
so uh this friday just as a as a recap
we have a car class coming up so
uh
at the end of today's class we'll talk a
little bit about it and then on thursday
uh we will have everything that you need
to know right so on on thursday
everything else will finish up so we're
going to hint at a lot of stuff tonight
and then thursday we're going to
reinforce it and we're going to see some
really important stuff
we're going to talk about behavioral
questions tonight questions that you're
going to get asked during interviews
questions that we are going to practice
over and over until our lips are dry
right
and the way that we do our behavioral
questions is with a method called car
cause action result
and so on friday i'm gonna do some of
these questions live just to see you can
get the idea
just so you can get the idea of how you
might actually start answering these
questions in an actual interview
scenario
cool
so
is it like star yes but it's one thing
less you have to remember which makes it
better so cars better than star
so we're gonna talk about that end of
tonight but know that we have a class on
friday beautiful
office hour sunday 1 p.m
right
office hours 1 p.m on sunday
now
this sunday will be a big review
will be a big review
uh it'll be kind of everything we've
covered in javascript so that way we can
jump into the back end right
everything
that we've covered so far in javascript
and one sunday we're going through it
all again however long it takes us we're
going to get through it uh so if you've
been a little shaky on any of the
javascript stuff you're you're joining
us a little bit later in the in the
program you're part of the ketchup crew
and you want to review some javascript
that's going to be this sunday
so
car friday
office hours full super review on sunday
and uh remember you got a fresh start
don't care if you submitted homework in
the past don't care if you forgot a few
a few check-ins
don't care the sleigh's been wiped clean
you start fresh today
and part of that starting fresh is that
your networking starts again
today this week
i need you to have at least one
coffee chat that's the goal for this
week we're going to bring the networking
back in
bring the networking back in get get up
to speed a little bit
right getting back up to speed and so
one coffee chat this week
julia had two today
nice
seems like we had a lot of new folks
today um yes things are recorded um the
vods are available on twitch afterwards
and they eventually get up on youtube
but there's a lot of perks to being live
and then most of our like car classes
and stuff like that will be on discord
because we're sharing a lot of personal
stuff so make sure in the discord
exclamation point discord uh every
single time we go live we put a message
in discord so you never miss anything
cool
alrighty so networking starts again
today
client deadline is pushed to may 17th so
you can get a paid client you can
volunteer for a grassroots organization
or
you can contribute free software
g weenie hey thank you for the five get
themselves appreciate you thank you for
being here
and quantum hey thank you for the tier
three appreciate you
cool
alrighty
now
two really important bits of information
just want to bring back to the top of
your mind things that we need to start
incorporating because you should be
still doing your anchor remember when we
go through the material especially the
material tonight
active recall
and space repetition are your friends
when you're done with a class or you're
done with reading make sure you're
actively recalling all the things that
you just learned we know the science
behind active recall make sure you're
still using it to this day make sure
you're still putting into action when
we're done with a raid make sure you ask
yourself wait what did i learn tonight
talk it out loud say it out loud grab
grab a duck do something that you can
actively recall the things that you
learn
and don't forget that you're going to
have to constantly be resetting your
forgetting curve we know that we can
reset our forgetting curve using a tool
like anki and if we constantly reset our
forgetting curve we won't forget stuff
software engineering is a cumulative
career you're gonna need to know this
stuff for the rest of your life and so
don't slouch on your anki anki's gonna
become a crucial
crucial tool over the next three months
that you can
learn something that we're gonna talk
about tonight called the bank
so please if you've been slouching on
your active recall and your space
repetition this is your wake-up call to
bring it back into your life
we know the science behind space
repetition we know why we do it the idea
that we can do something
that could increase
our retention
increase our ability to recall stuff is
super important
async awaits hey thank you for the five
gifted subs thank you for being here
chart
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
or cart sorry thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
all right
now
dennis thank you for the posture check
y'all splashing out with the channel
points today eh
let me get the posture right cool now
the reason why i'm bringing this up and
why this space repetition is so
important is because
as we go in
to the hunt
as we actually start interviewing well
guess what you have to be able to recall
all the knowledge that we've learned
throughout the program
and so if you have not been doing your
space repetition it's going to be harder
to recall that information during the
hunt and so please
bring anki back into the game it's going
to make you more calm it's going to make
you more confident it's going to make it
easier when you're in these interviews
for things to flow like butter and for
them to not have any doubt and have you
passed that
sniff test
cool
alrighty
now
a lot of folks think
that getting the job comes down to your
coding ability and you hear me say over
and over again that that's not the case
but over my 10 years
over the thousands of people i've seen
learn how to code and over the hundreds
of folks that have gotten great jobs as
software engineers that i've had a part
in and not like not like oh i talked to
them once like no like they were in my
classroom and i helped them get a job
there was only one thing
that i have ever seen
that has been the indicator as to
whether or not someone is going to get a
job
it's only one thing
and that one thing
is that they made a decision
that this is what they want
that's it
they woke up
and they said i'm gonna get a job as a
software engineer
now the problem is
a lot of folks say they want it
but they kind of want it
they don't they they want it but they
they just kind of want it they they want
this they want the salary
they want the slides in the office they
they want the happy career
but they're not at the point where
they're ready to put in the work
to get it
and so i have a lot of folks that tell
me hey leon i want a job as a software
engineer and that's great but i can tell
that they just kind of want it
and then
there's always a moment in a lot of my
students and the favorite thing for me
ever when i was in the classroom
is one day i would come into the
classroom
and the person that was in the back is
now on the front
and it's something i i i i can't shake
and i know how to explain i don't know
how to like bottle it up i just can just
tell you what i see
that person is now in the front and i
can see it in their eyes
something's different a a a
a switch
has flipped
something's different
they're going to do the things that it
takes to get the job
it's not about their coding ability it's
not about how good javascript it's a
it's a relentlessness
it's a resilience it's a determination
that says i'm gonna do what it takes to
get the job because getting the job is a
hard
[__]
task
and some folks wake up the switch is
flipped and they're ready
to put in the work the hunger exactly
the grit
that it's gonna take to get the job is
there
and it's okay if you can't get there but
i'm telling you that's the only thing
that ever matters
right
it's the only thing
that i have ever seen
across
hundreds
of students
it's just that that that that look
i don't know how to explain it
it's just the look that i see it's it's
someone that says you know what i'm
going to do
what it takes
and i'm not going to stop
it
it's a decision
it really is
just
a decision
and so i don't need you to make that
decision tonight
but i need you to make it soon
do you want this do you want a job as a
software engineer do you want a job that
has a good stable career that has a high
growth ceiling that is legitimately one
of the happiest careers for the past
five years running or do you kind of
want it because if you kind of want it
these next few months are gonna be
really rough but if you want it
and you're not gonna take no for an
answer you're willing to sign up to the
rejection you're willing to to have 59
interviews go horribly wrong just to
have the last one go right
then you're in the right spot
but it's a decision that you have to
make
and a lot of folks that that tell me
right off the gate lee i'm going to do
it i want it no
seriously
sit on this question
like think about it put your mind to it
is it something that you really want
is it something that you're willing to
continue in this trough of sorrow for
all right because if you kind of want it
this is not for you
kind of want it is just going to cause
you some pain and suffering
kind of want it is going to be a waste
the next few months
kind of want it is you're going to be
mad that in three months that like
you've learned all this code but you're
not closer to getting a job like just
make the decision
and if you want it
and you know that you want it and you've
made that switch
the next few months there's a lot we to
do
right a lot that we got to do and so
tonight is about presenting those things
to you so that when you make the
decision you have this class to come
back to
you have all of these things
right
you have all of these things that you
can rely on that you know are gonna open
up doors
to get you closer to that job but this
is not a class four and this is the rest
of program's not for folks that kind of
want it and i i don't mean that in some
like
weird
hustle culture [__] it's just
something that i've seen
time and time again
there are some folks at this point in
the process
that kind of want it and they're going
to float for the next portion of program
they're going to float through the job
hunt it's not going to work out and then
they're going to disappear and be upset
at themselves no
make a decision do you want it or do you
kind of one because if you want it
there's a lot of stuff you have to start
doing every day for the next three
months to make it happen
and it's okay it's okay if you just kind
of want it and this was a good
experience and you're ready to dip fine
i'll take it
i it doesn't it's a decision it doesn't
matter how good of an interviewer you
are it doesn't matter how good of a
coder you are it's just a decision
are you going to stick it out you're
going to go through the trophy star
you're going to do all the things that
suck because the next three months suck
they're not fun
i'm going to try and make it as fun as
possible but they're but they're
not and so i i just want to put that out
there
save yourself some pain
cool
axel it doesn't
it matter good for web dev it also works
good for general software development
web dev just has a lot of jobs right now
cool
all right i said to put that out there i
have to put it out there i know that
it's a doom gloom thing to say but
there's really no difference i've worked
with so many different students
i've worked with so many different
students from all different walks of
life that have had
lots of privilege no privilege that i've
had
tons of experience no experience and it
doesn't matter when it comes to this
next three months
these three months these three next
months it just doesn't matter it's a
decision that you make that you're gonna
put in the work to get this stuff done
and if you do you open enough doors to
get a job
that's it
that's all it is
cool
all right now
i am based in the us
and a lot of my getting a job experience
comes from working with folks that are
based in the u.s now
over the last year i have been blessed
to work with a lot of folks specifically
through 100 devs that are from all over
the world in fact our first 10 or so
jobs most of them were for folks not in
the us i've worked really hard to
understand the remote perspective and
i've worked really hard to understand
folks that are applying in different
countries i've done a lot of different
weird things i've gone through visa
processes i've helped people get
sponsored visas i've done a lot of
things but at the end of the day most of
my experience comes from the u.s and i
think it's worthwhile to name that
because there might be things little
little quirks that are different to your
specific country or your specific region
that might not perfectly align with the
things that cover tonight that's okay
you can figure out those quirks and
features
of your area
but no i'm gonna take the perspective
tonight that you are applying to a local
area and
then we'll also take the perspective
that you might be applying to remote
companies tonight will be a little bit
more geared towards folks that are
applying to local companies and then
we'll have more and more stuff that
covers about remote possibilities as
well
alrighty
now
here's another big thing tonight's a lot
of caveats before we jump into i told
you these are all my secrets i'm
spilling everything so i got to put some
caveats on the class
um
what we're about to cover tonight
uh is is a lot of stuff that are
probably
moral decisions
like these some of the things i want to
share tonight are legitimately moral
decisions
i am a if you haven't realized by now a
by any means necessary type of person
i don't care about companies i care
about y'all
i'm going to show you how to play a game
it's going to be up to you if you want
to play it
okay
i get a lot of hate
a lot of weird stuff from these these
classes
um a lot of folks don't like the things
i'm gonna share tonight that's okay i
really don't care
i felt a lot of folks get jobs and at
the end of the day i don't care about
some corporation
and i don't care
about your company
i i don't care about your culture
i don't care about anything about your
organization
because i saw what happened during the
pandemic
i saw the companies that were were a
family
that took care of their that took care
of their employees day in and day out
that had all the fancy stuff and as soon
as the pandemic hit
new phone who this
i don't even know who you are what do
you want to get paid
no
so quickly some of the best companies
turned on their employees and it got
dirty real quick so
it's not personal
it's business
i don't care about your org i don't care
about your company i care about the
people that i'm trying to help get jobs
and so
if your process is broken enough that i
can game it well guess what i'm going to
game it because i want my students the
folks that i work with
to to have as many opportunities as
possible
now
i put my cards on the table it's up to
you if you want to play that game or not
and at the end of the day i really do
hope that you keep in mind
that it really isn't personal that it's
all business and that these companies
don't care about you i don't care if
they say they care about you i don't
care if they promise that they care
about you when the chips are down and
they could save a dollar by following
you guess what's going to happen you're
going to get fired
and so i'm here to play a game that is
going to help me get the most
opportunity and i don't have any love
for these companies
cool
so
we got a lot of things on the table here
we know that we're signing up
for a a really
hard process
a process where you have to make a
decision
that says you know what i'm willing to
put in the work
i'm willing to to to go through this
struggle
so that i can
one day wake up
to a good job
a good paycheck
to good health insurance to a happy
career
to where a lot of your life could
fundamentally change
it comes down to a decision
it comes down to playing
some things in a very specific order to
doing a few things right if you do all
these things you can wind up with a
great job
corey hey thank you for the gift it subs
thank you for being here cool
so i put that on the table
i really do
hope
that you
take everything to heart tonight that
you make the decision
um that you understand that the things
we're covering tonight people don't like
me to share
they don't they really don't like when i
share some of these things some of these
things are are the opposite of what a
lot of other folks will tell you to do
you're gonna you're gonna have some some
some of your software engineering
friends they're going to be mad i know
i'm getting some emails but you don't
have to email me i you already know i'm
you're not getting a reply from me
we're going to make some nerds angry
but at the end of the day
you have a lot of tools a lot of systems
that are going to support you over the
next three months they're gonna make it
easier for you to get a job
all right
so tonight we're gonna have kind of six
main pieces
we're gonna have a crafting your story
which we've kind of already talked a
little bit about we had our first
crafting story we're to talk about your
online presence we're going to talk
about the most important thing that you
will ever do
when it comes time to getting a job and
that's your hit list
we're going to talk about the interview
process and what you can expect and then
we're going to get into car and prep two
systems they're going to make it easier
right
they're going to make it easier for you
to get through these interviews and
we're going to talk about the actual
interviewing process there's a lot of
stuff to get through tonight there's a
lot of meat here
um but let's dive right into it
malik hey
flex 14. thank you for the 10 give
themselves that's wild thank you so much
thank you for being here
that's wild
thank you so much
the the subs have been wild tonight
thank you everybody for the gifted subs
the subs the uh the prime subs and all
of jeff bezos's money i appreciate it
thank you for being here
all right
before we jump into it two things that i
would appreciate if you did right away
uh first thing is grab the checklist if
you click the link here in the slides
you can always do exclamation point
slides if you need the slides
all right
in the slides boom you can grab you can
do actually point slides to get the
slides
they're also in the discord message i
didn't send them at the first the first
time we got pushed you could check the
discord get the link there uh you can
always actually slide to get them i can
always do i think it's exclamation point
checklist for the checklist as well i
think that works as well
and uh make sure you have this checklist
it's the professional checklist that
we've been using it's been part of your
homework
but we're going to use it a lot tonight
a lot of what comes from this checklist
is the hard work of my colleague at rc
stephanie uh so if you haven't already i
really appreciate you just giving them a
follow in fact i'll give you a second to
give them a follow on twitter um i've
learned a lot from working with them uh
they they've helped so many of the
students that i work with get jobs it's
just really worthwhile to just give them
a quick follow just as a thank you for
putting together this checklist putting
into a lot of stuff we're going to cover
tonight
i'll drop their
lincoln chat
cool
alrighty
boom we got the checklist because we're
using it a lot tonight just have it
pulled up so you can reference it as i
start talking through it i'm actually
going to read through some of quite a
few of the things that are in the
checklist so it's good to have it open
for uh tonight
all right first and most important thing
that you need is we start gearing up for
the hunt
is this idea of crafting
your
story
so we had our one class on crafting your
but the crafting your story is all about
one
really important thing
why are you here and when i say why are
you here i mean it's it's more about
like why are you
the best
person
for this job and why are you applying
for this software engineering position
right
it's it's thinking about all your
highlights thinking about yourself in
the most positive light possible
we heard in the first crafting your
story classes folks with a range of
different experiences i only chose the
best things from those experiences and
we found a way to make it seem like a
highlights reel of their life and that
is why you are here right and so what is
the reason like why do we invest so much
time in crafting your story
well it's because you all
smell
oh it's bad
you all smell
right
no smell
you have a boot camp smell
it's okay
but you all have a smell
and it's it's not like a physical smell
uh it's a smell
that when you are
trying to go through the interview
process
it's something that's gonna stop you
from getting to the nerds
okay we all have a smell that's gonna
stop us from getting to the nerds a lot
of times before we can actually
interview at a company there's a
recruiter or someone standing in our way
and they actually don't spend a lot of
time with each candidate they take a
quick look a quick breeze a quick
sniff
right a quick sniff
and if you smell they don't let you
continue on in the process
and a lot of folks
this is where
their journey ends
they never
ever passed the sniff test
i can't tell you how many folks i've
worked with one-on-one
that were flandering trying to get jobs
and they just didn't pass a basic sniff
test
they didn't look like they didn't sound
like they didn't smell like
an engineer
and when someone is only spending six
seconds looking at your resume
taking a quick peek at your linkedin and
github if all your ducks are in a row
you're not going to pass the sniff test
and you're not going to make it to the
next round of the interviews
and so a lot of what we do in the
beginning
right we do a lot in the beginning
is setting ourselves up so that we don't
smell
and we all come to this process
with a lot of things
that just when you start to think about
it are some of the worst things you
could ever
do
one of the worst things i see that gets
my goat where i get so mad
is folks that have
junior or aspiring
all over their socials
on their twitter on their linkedin it
says junior engineer or aspiring
software engineer
no one
wants to hire an aspiring
software engineer if you still have
junior you still have aspiring get it
off your profiles right now please
delete it get rid of it it's out of here
that's the smell i'm talking about
that's the smell
we all come into this process
all right we all come into this process
doing things that make us stink
and so tonight is about identifying
those things
removing them from our life so that we
can get past this initial
sniff
now
once you get past this initial sniff
you can make it to the nerds
right you can make it
the nerd
and once you get to the nerds
the folks that are actually on the
engineering teams well then it comes
down to two
things
it comes down to can you code
and do i want to work with you for the
next two years
and i've seen students
game one of these really really well
and get a job
right
but if you can pass that first sniff
test you can get to the actual engineers
where you're doing actual engineering
interviews it really comes down to two
things can you code
and do i want to work with you for the
next two years both of these there is a
game to be played can you code well we
can do a lot of stuff
that tips it in our favor there's a
reason why there's so many things that
we do at 100 devs can you code well yes
talk to my previous clients boom you now
know i know how to code can you code yes
look at my 100 hours project
it's a project i sunk 100 hours into oh
you do know how to code
can you code yes look at all the
projects i built as part of my teams at
100 devs can you code yes
look at my github profile look at all my
green squares i code every day i push
code every day can you code
yes
look at me solve these coding challenges
because i've been doing a cold wars
every day for the past six
months
so the can you code question we got that
on lock
and we're going to continue
to have this on lock there's a reason
why we do the things that we do because
it all is leading up to this process
where we have to pass this initial sniff
and we're going to talk about how to do
that tonight and then once we make it to
the actual engineers there's two
questions we have to pass and the can
you code if you just do the things that
i'm asking you're going to be able to
say yes to all those can you code
questions and you're going to have proof
that shows that you can code real
clients
real projects
real github history
that when they have to ask
they're doing a little sniff of their
own they go oh yeah this person knows
how to code
and then we're going to talk a lot about
this and do i want to work with you for
the next two years like i said there's a
game to be played
it's up to you if you want to play it
we're going to talk about a hit list
we're going to talk about getting to
know folks that are at the companies
where we are getting referred into
and uh when i show up to that interview
you know when i show up to that
interview
i know who i'm talking to
i scoped them out on twitter
i looked at all their tweets i read
their blog i saw in 19
i saw in 2019 that they went to a magic
the gathering convention or a tournament
and uh when i sit down to that interview
and i have my notebook with me as my
notebook hits the table oops
my magic the gathering card falls out of
my book
and i go oh sorry i gotta grab that card
and put it back into my notebook here it
was an accident
right and now they see oh you play magic
oh yeah i love playing magic together we
play magic gathering since i was little
this is just one of my favorite cards
here by the way
put it back into my notebook i'm here to
interview how are you today
they got got
so now
not only will they know that you know
how to code
but this person is going to want to work
with you for the next two years they
want to play some matches gathering over
lunch
so like i said
there's some games to be played i'm
going to show you how to play them it's
up to you if you want to play them this
way
so tonight we're going to talk a lot
about passing the can you code sniff
test we're going to talk about this
other part
i want to work with the next two years
because that's just equally as important
i've had some students
that didn't do too hot with the code
part
but they played the social game and they
still got the offer
so different things for different folks
here
all the fun stuff we're going to get
into
all right so
now
when you're trying to get past this
sniff test
you all are labeled right now with a
boot camper smell
and when you are labeled with that boot
camper smell
one of the very first things you can do
to get past that smell is to have a well
crafted story does that does not mention
anything about a boot camp
i know it sounds really kind of wild but
that's it
uh somebody said a mod mail the other
day
uh i forget what it was about
they were talking about something about
an applying somewhere and one of our
mods occ jennifer they said
i applied to 20 companies and never once
did it come up that i was in a boot camp
i applied to 20 companies before they
got their job and never once did i utter
the word boot camp
right
your story is so much more
than a boot camp
you have so many more things you can
mention that you could bring up that are
highlights to your life
that lead into
why you're showing up for that job today
and that boot camp has nothing to do
with it self taught has nothing to do
with it none of these words are things
that help you pass the sniff test nobody
wants to hire a boot camper nobody wants
to hire a self-taught engineer we don't
have to snitch on ourselves out the gate
we don't have to shoot ourselves in the
foot
when this gatekeeper with their magical
list of gatekeeping [__] doesn't
care
they just don't care
now
we're going to present our story in the
best possible light
we're going to
our our truth in the most possible best
possible light
and if they want to dig we let them dig
we let them dig it's okay
to let them dig but what i'm saying
is that coming out the gate
you don't have to snitch on yourself
let them dig
right let them dig
exactly jesus let them dig don't dig
yourself in a hole exactly let them dig
if they want to dig
but you don't need to come out the gate
saying oh well i just started coding
three months ago i did a boot camp and i
have some projects
you want to see my projects
no
stop it
nobody cares
you got six seconds to impress them
they don't need to hear that you just
started or whatever no
talk about your wins
highlight your experiences and talk
about how they lead to where you are
today
i don't care what your background is
there is a way to craft your story
and the crafting story classes that
we're doing are going to help you
recognize that and i'm gonna share a
link after class on discord we recorded
a session with alumni uh helping them
craft their story and so i'll share that
as well so you can see more examples but
talk about your wins
let's say you were a server in a
restaurant for 10 years
you can craft a story beautifully
for 10 years i worked in the services
industry
working with a wide range of different
tools and technologies
at my previous employer i had to use a
pos system that was
piece of [__]
and uh i realized that i probably could
write better software and so i took it
upon myself to learn javascript and
while i was working that industry i was
also writing code to make the industry
better
the pandemic hit as you know the service
industry was devastated so i leaned into
my engineering skill set i leaned into
freelancing and working with
several wonderful clients but i'm tired
of the agency life i'm tired of working
with clients and always having to chase
the next meal so i'm ready to join a
product team such as yours that builds
software that people love
because my roots is working with
software that i hate it and so i'm
really excited to be interviewing with
your company today
boom
that's it
that's someone's story that has been a
waiter or waitress for the past 10 years
at no point did i say i did a boot camp
at no point did i snitch on myself at no
point
did i not talk about myself
in the best light possible there is
always
a way
so
i've asked you to do it
and we're going to take some time to do
it
tonight
as well
so we are going to take five minutes
to craft our stories
five minutes
to craft our stories i want you to think
about your previous experience in the
best
light possible
just the winds
easy transitions are
this is what i was doing i didn't like
doing it here's how i tried to fix it
started freelancing and now i'm trying
to join your company
so i want you to take five minutes
to think through your story
all right
think through your story
to write out your highlights
and don't you dare mention a bootcamp
you don't even need 100 devs in that
story at all you can say 100 devs was an
agency where you got your first clients
if you got a paid client boom but you
don't need it to be there
all right let's go ahead five minutes on
the clock
if you finish your story
i want you to put it in chat
you don't you don't type in a chat type
it to yourself
but i want you to put it in chat
okay take five minutes
five minutes to craft your story in the
best light possible
i'll put some musics on
we're gonna come back
hey thank you for the raid thank you for
bringing the crew back
i appreciate it thank you for coming
through uh we are talking about how to
get a job tonight
talk about how to get a job in tech
condensing 10 years of helping folks get
jobs as software engineers into two
classes and this is the first one
and now right now we're talking about
crafting our story uh when you craft a
story it's the reason why you're showing
up for the job tonight because most
folks specifically folks that are
getting their first job
in tech have a smell
they smell like we can smell the boot
camp on them
and we're trying to think about just our
highlights our our our positives the
things that are explaining why we're
showing up for the job because if you
can craft that story you can get past
that initial gatekeeper you can get to
the engineers and then once you get to
the engineers it's kenny code you don't
want to work with work with you for the
next two years so we're taking a few
minutes just to craft our story you see
some folks throwing their stories into
chat if you finish early and you feel
comfortable throw your story in chat so
other folks can get some inspiration
from it
five minutes is way too short nah
three sentences if that's all you got
three sentences don't don't you don't
have to
you don't have to give me the whole
story
no need for loquaciousness tonight give
me the bangers only
all right come on through folks three
minutes think through it
you got this
country puzzle hey thank you for the
raid i appreciate you always bringing
the crew by
hope you had a good stream hope you're
doing well thank you everybody for
stopping by
[Music]
look at these stories folks they're good
see some of you all snitching on
yourself and your stories you don't have
to say you were fired not to say you
were let go
just say you transitioned
so many good ones folks well done
everybody
peace
beautiful
minute left
15.
[Music]
my speech is as a follower of ganchi i
can with everything
[Music]
how would you word being a stay-at-home
mom we actually did that in our crafting
or story class
there's a lot of things that you run
into as a stay-at-home mom that can be
challenges
and say you were working on those
challenges decided to write software to
help with those challenges
you started freelancing and now you're
looking for a job on a product team
alrighty folks
welcome back come on back let's take a
let's take a look at this
a lot of folks a lot of good a lot of
good ones here i love seeing them all
is there a limit for the blurb you want
it you want to keep it like three to
five sentences i think three sentences
is where you start then you add another
two of like the filler and you're in a
good spot right
um something i noticed as i was reading
a lot of these is a lot of you are still
snitching on yourselves right like we
understand like a lot of us are here
like like a lot of us are here because
food tastes good and jobs give us money
to buy food and like that's why we're
here we can't say that in an interview
but i mean realistically that's why
we're here food is helpful right like
that's why i'm an engineer like
literally why i'm an engineer because i
needed food and so i built a website got
money and then was able to eat food
right but we can't say that in an
interview
so the the idea of like saying like i'm
here because of money like that's why
we're all there
probably a big portion of us um but we
can't put that in our in our stories
uh because we're playing the game right
i'm also seeing a lot of you that are
still kind of snitching on yourself a
little bit i said it kind of while you
were working but um there's no need to
say i was let go that i was laid off
that i was fired it's always that you
were transitioning
and really as long as you're identifying
something
that was wrong that you or didn't like
and you built solutions to fix it and
you started freelancing and now you're
looking for a role in a product team
that can be your story for most of these
but these look amazing so far it's a
good start keep working on this keep
practicing we're gonna have nights where
we're gonna craft stories live we're
gonna have places to workshop them with
others so this is a good start i'm glad
we're thinking about this our mind's in
the right spot
we're at the top of the hour so we're to
take our
break
when we come back from the break we're
going to keep pushing a lot of stuff to
get to tonight
all right
should our blurb be what we strive to
provide what we currently provide
that's up to you how you want to stretch
that word
what you strive could also be what you
currently provide if you
if you if you word it correctly
cool
alrighty folks
let's go and put our timer up here for
our break five minutes on the clock if
you're able please get up move around
hydrate look out the window if you have
one to see something that's not your
screen let your eyes focus on something
that's in the distance
and we'll be back in five minutes to
keep pushing i
the best is yet to come folks this is
just this is just a taste we got a lot
of stuff to get into tonight
all right five minutes on the clock
in five
[Music]
hey liam can you help the craftsman
store i'm an engineering student
uh students are easy right you just talk
about your your projects right
especially if you're coming right out of
university i was in university i built
some amazing stuff worked some amazing
companies and internships and boom
alrighty folks come on back come on back
all right i know the folks kind of get a
little a little nervous about the
crafting your story that's okay we're
gonna have lots of classes on crafting
your story remember uh this is this is
the start right this is the beginning
this is us gearing up for the hunt uh a
lot of this stuff we're gonna go deeper
on but tonight's a lot of things i need
you thinking about the things i need you
to start putting these gears into motion
and so we're going to have full classes
on kind of more crafting the story kind
of more of those like friday sessions
where we spend time doing it so this
won't be our first and last time talking
about it
hey kirko
all right
and then we'll actually have a whole
like class night where we're on remote
on discord helping each other with this
stuff so like i said these are first
passes we have nights where we work
together to get these things done where
we can come together as a community to
help folks that are not feeling too
great about how they're crafting their
story but you got to start getting the
wheels turning remember it's a decision
you want it or do you not that's it
make the decision
cool
all right
next we got to talk about our online
persona remember if we're going to pass
this
sniff test
a lot of passing that sniff test
is what you put out there publicly for
these interviewers these recruiters to
see
and so this online persona
begins with kind of three key things and
some of these things we've already
talked about but we're going to bring
them up again
your portfolio your twitter and your
linkedin
so
uh is an amazing resource
it is one of
the best tools that you will have
when it comes time to getting a job
and so i'm going to jump ahead a little
bit here to explain
why
when you are
trying to get a job
we do not apply
i said one more time let me get big here
for a second
when it comes time
to get a job
we never
click
apply
we
will get referred
into
these jobs
here's what happens at most tech
companies
at most tech companies
engineers get referral bonuses
so if they refer another engineer
they get a check i've seen the checks
anywhere from like 2k to 30 grand
per referral
right
and so if
you cannot get referred
you don't stand a chance
right
so many companies have referral fees
and if you can't get a referral
and the engineers are getting
five ten grand for each referral it's a
wrap you might as well just go home
also
when you just click apply and you don't
get referred it is the equivalent
of printing out your resume
crumpling it up and throwing it in the
trash can every time you click apply
just imagine somewhere there's a printer
that prints out your resume crumples it
up and throws it in the trash can
if you can't get referred you are going
up against folks that are getting
referred because so many of these
companies have referral fees
and if somebody's getting referred that
means that there's someone that's
vouching for them and that's why the
referral is so important with the
referral
it will help you typically skip one of
the first rounds of the interview which
we'll talk about in a bit
but it is something that immediately
immediately helps you get past the sniff
test
somebody on the team
right
someone that was on the team said that
you should be on the team
right
someone on the team
said that you should be on the team
that carries more weight than anything
that you could do it carries more weight
than your your github it carries more
weight than your portfolio carries more
weight than your linkedin carries more
weight than your coding ability when
someone on the team says that this
person should be on the team too
right
so if you're not getting a referral
and you're going up against other folks
that already have the referral
your resume is getting crumpled up and
thrown in the trash can
right in fact you printing out your
resume crumpling up and throwing it in
the trash can probably has a better
probability of you getting a job than
clicking apply because
when you take out the trash and you
throw it into the into like the the
larger garbage can a raccoon is going to
come along at night
dig through the trash pull out your
resume run into the street with the
resume get hit by a car
the person gets out the car oh my god i
just hit this raccoon and notices in the
raccoon's mouth that there's a piece of
paper
and that piece of paper has your name on
it it is your
resume and this this
hiring manager is so overwhelmed with
grief from having run over the raccoon
that they decide that they have to give
you an interview and you do well in the
interview because you have an amazing
portfolio amazing github amazing
projects you've been doing code wars
every day for the past four months so
you get the job
that was way more likely than you
clicking apply and getting a job
okay just so that we understand that
and so in a world
where referrals are so important
twitter
can be a really good tool
because when you have a well manicured
twitter
which we'll talk about in a second
there's something that you can do a
cheat code one of the biggest cheat
codes i got
right
to get referrals we have to know
someone and to get to know someone we
have to turn them from an acquaintance
into our friend
well if you have a good twitter where
you set it up right where you set it up
so that you
come across as another fellow engineer
hello fellow engineers i love nia's
twitter they talk about themselves in
the best positive light right
hey
dies in chat there we go
nye is original twitter
your inclusive tech leader founder cto
afros and ai software engineer is it
does it say does it say anything other
than i am a badass software engineer no
that's it
it's all it is
their newer one software engineer
abolitionist community builder right
talking their talk about who they are
this is a phenomenal twitter
i believe we also have sam in chat as
well do exclamation point sam if you
want to learn more about sam
talks about who they are developer
advocate they're a developer 100 devs a
lot like they're talking their talk in
their
lovely twitter profiles
all right
hey sam is here what's going on sam
uh
and so you build a good twitter profile
that where you come across as the
software engineer that you are
and then follow 50 engineers
where you will be applying
so if you are in boston
follow 50 engineers in boston
if you are in austin texas follow 50
engineers in austin texas it might take
you a while to find those engineers but
you're going to find them
if you know that you're going to be
applying remote look for remote
developer hashtags and follow 50
engineers
that are using those hashtags
put them in a twitter list
and then every day
just interact with their content
like it
retweet it
that's it i mean that's you don't go
much further than that
like it retweet it do that every day
for a month or two
if they don't have that many followers
but there's a person that's constantly
liking
engaging
with their posts maybe you leave a
comment every once in a while oh
you're talking about typescript i just
started learning typescript here's a
tutorial i found that i really really
like
right it's just simple engagement
not anything hard you can just start by
liking
right
just by liking and retweeting
and then as you get more comfortable
right as you start to get more
comfortable and you see little places to
interject boom you're not worried about
everything on twitter
you're talking about the 50 engineers
that you found that are in your area
that you've added to a private list so
when you go on twitter you're not
looking at all the crap on twitter
you're just looking at your list of 50
engineers
right
50 engineers and you're focused on
engaging with them liking their content
leaving little comments and guess what
you do that for a month you're now
acquaintances
they know you
they only got 300 followers and so if
you're liking everything engaging with
them
you you just you just made a friend boom
boom cheat code
right
and then when it comes time
to get a job
and you need a referral the person that
you just been casually talking to
on twitter
hey
i've been following your content for a
really long time
i i love the things that you've been
sharing
would you be pop would you be willing to
give me a coffee chat
just 10 15 minutes of your time so i can
hear about how you got to where you are
or how you like working at such and such
a company
right
little little
little little things
right and i know a lot of folks get
really uncomfortable with the the
networking but this is easy
this is just liking and retweeting until
you get comfortable and then once you
get comfortable you can start engaging a
little bit more
all right
do you have any tips on how to find them
just go on twitter
you got to be willing to put in the work
right gotta be willing to put in the
work anyone can go on twitter start
looking for engineers start looking for
folks that are using certain hashtags
that are looking for certain cities
right you can go on angel list there are
some other places to get it but it's
going to take you a little while to find
them right
but you want to find engineers that are
in the city
right
use city hashtags
use things that are relevant to that
area
look up specific companies that are in
that area
right it's gonna take you a little while
but you can find them
if you're in a bigger city probably has
it's probably easier to like google it
it takes a little while put in that work
and then do that engagement
right
cool so twitter can be a phenomenal tool
right phenomenal tool to build those
very simple relationships to to lay down
that groundwork
right lay down that groundwork of you
being perceived as a fellow engineer not
only are you engaging with other
engineers
but you could also
start sharing content that makes you
look like an engineer
right
you could
every day tweet something technical
you could literally read hacker news and
then tweet about something you read on
hacker news that's it
or if you're someone that doesn't like
social media
grab a free buffer account spend one day
a month
just
putting in tweets that are gonna be sent
out automatically
right
right put it into buffer buffer is an
app that'll automatically tweet for you
right and then you don't have to worry
about it maybe you put time into it once
a month it does its thing now you're
looking like an engineer talking about
the engineering topics you're engaging
with other engineers you're building
some acquaintances with engineers in
your city
boom
something slightly small that you're
doing every day to build those
relationships
what did you tweet about every day oh oh
that's that's a little too much for me
mind blown yeah it's not it's not
it's not wild
but small list
focus on engaging
it's going to help you pass a sniff test
and it's going to build some simple
relationships for you when it comes time
to referrals
cool
all right linkedin and angellist
you want to make sure that you're
setting up your linkedin and angel lists
correctly um when it comes to the
linkedin and angel list if you read the
professional checklist there's a lot of
things on this checklist that are going
to help you with this right um
some people are saying how long should
the blurb be boom tells you how long it
should be uh when it comes time your
portfolio we'll talk about a second
there it is um
linkedin in angel list there's a few
things you want to start setting up
these profiles if you don't have the
profile now you want to make sure that
you are setting it up
now so they can marinate so by the time
you're ready for a job these profiles
have been marinating for you
right
and so these profiles are going to help
recruiters find you help people that are
trying to hire you find you and so
following this checklist for linkedin
and angellist could be
um
a really good thing to start immediately
that's why i asked you to do as part of
the professional checklist so
you'll notice one of the first things is
to get a professional headshot
you don't need to pay for headshots
right
go near an open window take a good
selfie
right and then remove the background of
your selfie i use remove bg
you can drop your image in here it'll
remove the background for you
automatically and there you go now you
have a nice headshot that you can use
maybe you want to put a little bit
fancier of a background maybe like a
brick wall or something behind you but
that's it
go in front of a window with some nice
natural light
remove the background in case there's
something weird in the background and
and that's it
cool
um i recommend setting up your current
role as software engineer at 100 devs
right just so that you can start the the
internal recruiter clock of you being a
software engineer
set your location so that folks that are
local to you can find you
and make sure your contact info is
updated make sure you've linked your
stuff together make sure that once you
set up your twitter your portfolio or
github you're linking all these things
together
because that's going to help the seo so
that when someone googles you
right so when someone googles you
right they can find all your related
information so you can pass that sniff
test
right
cool
what if we want to move that's a really
good question you should be targeting
these locations and things for the place
where you want to work
so a lot of folks might be in like a
smaller city but they're open to moving
to a bigger city put that bigger city on
all your stuff
what if they asked we did 100 devs you
got clients
what did they ask current salary no
you're a freelancer you worked with
clients
clients that you got and eventually
clients that also 100 devs provided as
well so it is contract work
as a lot of agencies already are
make sure you personalize your linkedin
url you can actually get your first name
last name please make sure you have like
your first name last name as your actual
url basically we're trying to make it so
that people can find you and anything
that you can get first name last name on
is gonna help have all that good stuff
pop up when people look for you
um about section you're gonna put your
blurb in there there's a lot of these
different things
that we're gonna ask you to do that are
all part of this checklist and so like i
said a lot a lot of hard work but if you
can do all these little things it all
starts to tip the odds in your favor
now the last thing i'll ask you to do
is to join the hundred devs
linkedin group
and
we have hundreds of people in that
linkedin group already
one thing i'm going to do is i'm going
to ask you to all join tonight
i have to approve you
i will not approve you if you do not
have your linkedin profile filled out so
if you don't have a photo and you don't
have like your role listed
i'm not going to approve you
right so you must you must have like an
actual photo yeah you have to have like
your role listed and if you don't have
those things listed
you're not going to get accepted into
the linkedin group but i want everyone
to go ahead and sign up for it
and then once you are approved so i'll
approve everyone tonight tomorrow
depending on how many folks sign up
initially right once you get approved i
want you to do something
i want you to find five individuals
that are in the group
and connect with them
right
five individuals that are already in the
group and connect
with them
once you connect with them
i want you to endorse them for
javascript node and react so that means
everyone tonight needs to have those
skills on their linkedin profile
i want you to have javascript node and
react so once you get approved
to the hundred devs group find five
folks connect with them and then endorse
javascript know it and react right
and so we're gonna have a couple nights
where i asked you to do this
and we're gonna keep the circle going
and so by the end of 100 devs we should
have i don't know 10 to 20 kind of
endorsements uh that way that the
recruiters that use that stuff right
right the when the recruiters start to
add that stuff look at that stuff you
start to show up in the searches
for those skills now remember when you
connect with folks what do we always do
whenever we connect with someone on
linkedin
what is absolutely imperative that you
do when you connect with someone
you add a message you send a note
exactly
if anyone from 100 devs sends you a
connection
without a message
ignore
just ignore them
always
always introduce yourself
always send a message
right
and if you get one that doesn't boop
disappear
cool
the link to the group is in uh the
slides i believe we also have a command
for it as well might be linkedin let's
see
uh yep we have exclamation point
linkedin is the command
and uh this is the group i'll spam it in
chat
like i said i won't add you unless you
got your your photo
and your roll and everything on there so
make sure you fill it out before you
join
beautiful
so
you set up your twitter
you have set up your linkedin your angel
list uh you have set up a portfolio
right you set up a portfolio
we've talked about the portfolio we've
talked about the resume we have a whole
class on how to set up your resume so
i'm kind of going quickly through these
little bits because we've already
covered a lot of it in our resume class
but
the thing i'll show you about the
portfolio if we look at sean's portfolio
sean's portfolio was a beautiful
html5 up template
they listed their their projects
and they wound up getting a job at
amazon
their original profile didn't even have
a url it was just the netlify
url and so you don't need to go out
there and spend a bunch of money on a
domain name
you don't need to have custom design
you can have a template and focus your
energy on doing all the stuff that
really moves the needle
right
when it comes time to getting a job
can you host your site on github yeah
you can github pages is cool um but i i
i just have a preference for netlify i
use them for everything
cool
all right
the rule of thumb is if you're a
designer
go ahead and design your portfolio
otherwise if you are not a designer
go ahead and use a template
the templates that we shared in the past
were html5 up
pretty much all of my students used
html5 up templates
and they've all got a wonderful jobs uh
after you get your first client
sometimes folks like to upgrade uh to
use like more fancy templates or custom
design but right out the gate you can
get non-shady templates to use cool
hosting for your portfolio i just use
netlify
netify.com drop is super easy just drag
your portfolio onto it it'll host it for
you you can use an actual domain or you
can set up a netlife domain for free
so you don't need to do anything that
costs money for this whole process
cool
uh domains if you do decide that you
want to buy like your first name last
name or something like that my two
go-to's their name cheap and i want my
name uh they're the only domain
registrars that i kind of use and trust
we covered a lot of this in the resume
class
um and then we do have the resume
template that is
linked in both the professional
checklist
and uh here in the slides
and so
for your resume
you definitely want to make sure
that you are using the bob coder
template
just use the template please just use my
it works
it's worked time and time again with so
many different students and remember
we are not applying
we're not clicking apply
right we are not
clicking
apply so does it matter
if our template
is readable by the robots
does it matter
if our resume is crafted perfectly so
the robots pick it up and take a and and
no it just doesn't matter
no it doesn't
this this template is pretty damn good
it's pretty damn good it's gonna work
pretty well with most of the like auto
reading resume programs
right
it's gonna it's gonna help with most of
the auto reading programs
but this one works better for passing
the sniff test so i've done things in a
slightly different way
that helps it so that folks that are
spending six seconds actually reading
the resume
right
get the stuff that they need so they can
make their decision and pass you on to
the nerds
i'm not interested in competing against
the computer i'm trying to game a human
to getting me to talk to the next person
in the in the chain right of getting the
interview
right that's the goal
this template works it's helped hundreds
of people get jobs
use it
you're gonna notice some things in here
that we talked about during our resume
class
i recommend having software engineer 100
devs your big projects in the client
work that you did if you did other
client work having kind of a section for
your client work and then like one other
role
for folks that have more history that
have done more stuff
this might slightly change to where
you're just gonna roll your freelancing
into your experience at 100 devs
right and then you might have more space
down here for your other roles
that's it
right and so it's up to you to take a
look at this but it should be one page
and you should
stick to conveying everything in that
one page uh if you're if you're kind of
hung up you don't know what to put on
your resume we have a full class
on just the resume that you can come
back and watch remember tonight we have
a lot of stuff to get through so go back
and watch that full class if you're like
leon why do i put 100 devs how do i how
do i talk about myself what skills do i
put how do i talk about my education go
back and watch that resume class we
cover everything about the resume
cool
so we've now built out a beautiful
beautiful
twitter
we've built a beautiful linkedin and
angel list we have our beautiful
portfolio we have it fully hosted we
have a beautiful built out resume
right
built out resume
nope the resume classes on youtube we
just cut off the part where we had um
where we shared other folks resumes it's
class 25 you know on youtube yep
cool
beautiful resume
so we have all these things that we've
now worked on that are manicured that
are perfect they're gonna help us
pass the sniff test you're like well how
do i make it perfect what do i have to
do for linkedin what do i have to do
it's all in the checklist baby
it's all in the checklist
it's a checklist literally just go
through and do the checklist
come on now
i got you
it's a checklist just follow the
checklist
all right
um
also once we get to the hit list
just know that we'll be making
a lot of different versions of our
resume
i think where a lot of folks mess up
when it comes to the hunt
is they think that one size fits all and
it doesn't so we're going to do a lot of
customization
a lot of customization to our resumes
and you're going to wind up with like 30
different versions of your resume so get
your first version done
make sure that it looks good through cv
compiler don't pay for anything
and
know that we're gonna kind of have a lot
of different versions of our resume just
like we have a lot of different versions
of our cover letter
cover letters kind of aren't super super
important anymore there are still a lot
of places that ask for them so it's
worthwhile to have your version of the
cover letter and you know how i do i've
given you an example
so you're going to take this example
and you're going to plug in the pieces
that make sense for you you're going to
take out the stuff that doesn't make
sense to you
right and you're going to have just
something to work with right
something to start with and then once we
get into the hunt we're going to make
lots of different versions of this
right
yeah
so for now just have a basic one as we
get deeper into the hunt right as we get
deeper into the hunt uh we'll spend more
time on this we'll have multiple
versions of it right tonight is about
seeing all the things that you have to
prepare
right
then the slides if you all the slides
are linked so if you click the bob
boberson it'll take you to the cover
letter all this stuff is stuff you have
to start working on that you have to
start crafting right like i said
a lot of work and so now you have
examples for everything you got to start
tweaking it to yourself
all right
gotta have your github set up remember
this is all just for that per that first
sniff test
that first sniff test
uh i can't message someone i can only
connect yeah when you connect you can
include a message
yeah when you connect with someone you
can include a message as you're
connecting you can't just send someone a
message you leave a you have a note as
you connect with someone so yeah you
don't need premium you don't have to pay
anything on linkedin when you connect
with them you add a note right it's
called add a note and so you add the
note and that's how you do it that's it
you don't need to send like a separate
message is just add a note as you are
connecting with them
cool
all right github super important
don't pay exactly blah said it do not
pay you don't have to pay for anything
not to pay for anything
in this whole entire process this whole
entire journey
the whole point is that we do it for
free you don't have to pay for any of
this stuff anything i ever show you do
not pay there's nothing to be paid here
what should the note say you should
introduce yourself
and let them know the reason why you're
connected
blah said i invested time and then eight
dollars for my domain name that's it now
they have a beautiful wonderful job
hey
cool
now
github
you don't want some uh
you don't want some crummy github you
want to you want a good github look
let's look at let's look at charles's
github
i love charles they were one of my
students at rc
uh they they grinded it out
they grinded it out like hold on i just
need you to think about let's just see
this no i gotta talk i gotta say i gotta
say something about sean
he said charles
sean i gotta talk about something i
gotta talk sean's i gotta talk sean's
talk all right
but let's look at their github look at
this beautiful github
their beautiful name
links to all their beautiful stuff
right
links to their website links to their
projects and look at at least their
projects
look there's two different kinds of
people in this world
there are some people that just put
images
and there's some people that put gifts
you know what i'm saying
there's some people that just put images
and then there are some people that put
gifts
that that take that extra step that go
that little extra mile
right
come on now
way to connect
ah
look at their code wars they keep it
public
they keep it public oh
i'm still scrolling baby
oh
look at the flex at the end too
completed over 1 000 plus challenges and
push five solutions every week
the recruiter that just came to this
page
they saw oh the recruiter's just like
that's what the recruiter did
they got hit with the gifts they're like
oh
then they got hit with the code where
people
they scrolled to the bottom and then
they got hit
come on now
come on now now see
some people some people
some people say leon i applied to all
these jobs i didn't get a job
and then there are some people that are
out here doing this
they put in the work that's what i'm
talking when i say you got to put in the
work
right all men are created equal some
work harder in pre-season
this is what i'm talking about
this isn't hard
but it's work
it's not hard but it's work
they were not happy
to just put basic stuff on their profile
to just have all their code wars in a
repo they had to go and fill out the
full template
and what i want you to note
i want you to know look look look look
look look at the format here how it's
made optimizations lessons learned
where'd they get that
where'd they get that from
the readme template that i gave you
in the slides that's part of the
checklist would you imagine look at this
so this is a template that alec ortega
one of our longest standing mentors at
resilient coders they put this together
look at this
name of the project brief sentence or
two about it link to where it's hosted
an image of it how it's made
optimizations you make lessons learned
examples
every single thing
you put on github
needs to have this template
full stop every project you put on
github needs to have this template and
here's why
it looks great
recruiters that are just taking a look
through your github they see this
oh
you smell great
right you smell great you're going to
the next round right and i'll tell you
why
because even if they're a little bit
more technical
right if they're a little bit more
technical they see it what you built
they see it live they see the
technologies you're hitting that seo
stuff you're hitting that seo game but
here's my favorite part i got two
favorite parts here
the optimizations
leon i don't have enough time to do
everything i wanted to do great
put it in the optimizations because when
the engineer is coming to your site and
they're like well it would have been
really great if they would have done
this or it would have been really good
if they done that well guess what you
don't have to do it
just put it in the optimizations
right now the engineer that's looking at
this will go oh
if they had more time they would have
used typescript or they did have more
time they would have used sql instead
right so now you put your optimizations
in there and now the engineers think
that you know what the heck you're
talking about and you didn't have to put
in the work
boom
and then i want recruiters to get lost
in my stuff i want them to be like
and so at the end
you link to all your other repos
right you link to all your other repo so
they can go from one repo to the next to
the next
get lost in it
they're they're just they just can't
wait to send you to the next round of
the interview right so we'll notice that
sean
the thing that i loved about sean is
they always
did it they just put in the work
right
they didn't have just a regular github
right they didn't just have a regular
command still i gotta scroll so far
boom
they didn't just scroll they just didn't
have a regular github they built it out
they used i don't know maybe like a
generator that i linked here in the
slides
i don't know maybe they maybe they use
the profile generator like leon how do i
make a beautiful profile boom generator
fill out your stuff it'll give you the
readme file that you can put on your
github done
i hope that you're seeing tonight that
i'm not just telling you to do stuff i'm
literally giving you exactly how to do
it
you want a resume resume example when a
cover letter cover letter example you
want a github not only will i give you
examples i will give you the generator
to generate it
some folks when i told you go build a
github some folks might told you go
build a resume nah
i'm giving you the examples that you can
use that have helped hundreds of other
folks you just gotta do the work
so your github you use a profile
generator to make a beautiful profile
just like sean
take it that extra step
don't be happy
with just regular images make gifs
make sure your content is linked oh
oh
baby
i need to take a walk i'll be right back
i need some water
[Laughter]
joe blow said me versus the guy the
recruiter tells me not to worry about
all right so i'm going to ask you a
question here
let's forget that sean went to amazon
and did their thing there
without knowing that sean
went to amazon and was an engineer there
for a while
just by looking at what you see here
does sean know how to code
yes
there's not a single thing
that the gatekeeping [__] could say
to sean
they've pushed code every single day
they made all the code that they pushed
public you can see their coding
challenges if i'm interviewing sean
think about this think about this hold
on this is really really important focus
on this this is super important i need
you to think about this
i need you to think about this please
please focus on this
put the wrong headphones in sorry i need
to focus on this one second one second
think about this
i have interviewed
hundreds of people
right hundreds of engineers i personally
have interviewed engineers
right
sometimes great engineers
fumble during coding challenges
coding challenges suck
sometimes you could be a great engineer
but mess up a coding challenge it's not
your day and
it would be horrible
if i let a great engineer
go
because the the the the stress of the
technical interview got them on that day
but
if i looked at someone's profile
and i saw that they publicly pushed
a thousand coding challenges
right
and i saw that their github they've
pushed a challenge every day for a year
plus
am i
likely
to give them a second shot
am i likely to think and say you know
what it might have been me
and not them
yes [__] yes
hell yes abso freaking lutely there's no
way as someone that was hiring engineers
that i could look at this github and not
think it might have been an off day or
better yet
if they sent me an email saying hey leon
i really appreciate you taking the time
to interview me i really appreciate
getting to know you and the team i just
want to let you know that it wasn't my
best day
i i had some really rough stuff happen
in the morning i i just wasn't in my
element for these coding challenges i
know i can do a much better job is there
any chance that you can give me a second
shot at the technical interview i know
on a good day i could really rock it
you can see my coding challenges in this
repo
i really do live this life i would
really appreciate a second shot
all day long i'm giving that person a
second shot
all
day
long
right so
is this
let's think about this for a second
hard
i don't think so
i think every single person here could
do this
use the literal generator i've given you
and then do a code war as a day
i think you could now not everyone has
the super privilege of time
but
barring that aside
i think every single person here
it's it's not a it's not a hard thing
it's a making it work 10 a work thing
right and and and putting in that little
extra bit of work
right
and so if you have the privilege of time
please don't waste it
please don't
right
because this is just one code wars a day
consistently
and if you do this if you do all the
little things that we've talked about
right
if you do all the little things that
we've talked about you're setting
yourself up for a phenomenal
career
there's not many things that we can do
in life
where at the end of the day
someone's going to give us 80 grand
right there's there's not three things
that we could do at the end of the day
where if we do these things these little
things
right
we do these little things every day it
could lead to a phenomenal career
that's high paid
has really good growth
that
that enables us to be happy
that has really good benefits right like
there's not many things that in life
where if we just do these little things
every day
that we could lead to something like
that
right
and so i i just hope that you see that
there's a way to do something and then
there's a way to do something and what
i'm asking you to do is to do something
right
i'm giving you all this stuff
and the reason why i'm giving it to you
why the reason why i'm asking you
to to to to do these things that seem
silly adding 50 people on twitter
engaging with their posts having a good
linkedin angelist having a good
portfolio having a good a a a good
well-hosted portfolio having a good
resume having a cover letter having a
good github
doing your code wars daily is because if
you do all these things in aggregate
you become a beast
an unstoppable
job-getting beast and it's just doing
these little things that no one else
wants to do
i'm telling you
other folks do not want to put in this
work
tell me how i know
that other folks aren't putting in this
work look at this slide
having trouble finding a job out of
college
400 plus applications with no
luck
nah son
not luck you need
you haven't been doing it right
honestly you haven't been doing it right
you didn't realize that you smelled
and you [__] up
that's it
there's a process to get a job
some folks put in the work to do that
process and other folks write these
kinds of posts on reddit
that's it that's all it is to it
we don't apply
we never click apply
there's never going to be a post from
somebody from 100 devs doing this
because we don't apply
we get networked in we get referred in
and we're going to talk about how to do
that we're going to talk about how to
get referred into these jobs so that you
are not
making one of these posts so
for the top of the hour we're gonna put
five minutes on the clock when we come
back from our break i'm going to talk to
you about how to get referred
into positions so that you are not
applying because we do
not click
apply
all right folks five minutes on the
clock we're gonna take a break when we
come back from break
we're going to
talk through
how to get referred
but i hope that you're taking everything
in the heart so far you understand
there's a lot of little things to be
done and if you do these things
you're opening door after door after
door it's going to hap that's going to
help you pass that sniff test and get
a job
all right uh we had somebody redeem jet
eternal added two minutes to the timer
so this five minute break is now a seven
minute break
i will see you all in seven minutes
with your extra two minutes i recommend
making sure that you join the linkedin
group
maybe think a little bit about your
story
then if you're able get up
move around hydrate look out the window
do something that's going to enable you
to
take some stress off your eyeballs
i just really like this gif there we go
all right right back
[Music]
yep project everything is available
immediately on twitch as a vod and then
on youtube
exclamation point youtube if you're new
here make sure you join our discord
that's where you'll get all the all the
goods
exclamation point discord if you're new
we're running a 30 week software
engineering bootcamp exclamation point
100 devs to learn more
how about a minute left folks
here at storm welcome
ah should we stop posting 100 days of
code does that give us a way of students
too much no you can you can you can be
doing all that stuff and then once we
get deeper into the hunt we'll slow down
with the
the boot camp rich stuff but we're not
at that point yet you can still be doing
all your stuff on twitter all that fun
stuff yeah
okay should we be pushing private or
public it's up to you recruiters are
going to dig through each repo
um it's up to you though yeah
i keep everything most of my stuff is
public stuff that is private make sure
you have the setting where when you
contribute to a private repo you still
get credit with your green squares
but you saw how impressive it was for
sean have all of their coding challenges
there to have that growth to be visible
that's pretty damn impressive
all right folks come on back come on
back
time for a different twitter yeah
definitely uh some folks if you just
have wild twitters having like a
professional twitter could be helpful i
don't mean like the setting where you
turn your twitter into a professional
one i don't i don't use that i just mean
that like if you have like something
where you just been while in on socials
then it might behoove you to start a new
social
also remember that a lot of people
signed up for twitter with their phone
number so i've had employers like put in
people's phone numbers on twitter and
that's how they got got so be
careful i deleted my og tutor 2 wild on
that one yeah yeah i see that
all right so remember
we're not clicking apply folks
clicking apply does not work clicking
apply
does not
work
okay you're saying leon clicking apply
doesn't work what do we do
we get referred
remember how i said that every single
not everything but most companies have
referral programs if you are not getting
referrals you are going up against folks
that are getting referrals you are not
going to make it past that first round
because you're not getting referred and
you're going up against people that are
getting referred it's a fool's errand
and so
the referral process is super important
because it gives you an evil play even
playing field but it also typically
helps you skip one of the first rounds
of the interview process and so when we
talk about the interview process as a
whole we'll notice that if you're
getting referred you'll often skip that
first phone screen or that first kind of
thing that's in your path of getting to
the actual technical interview
cool
so
[Laughter]
the hit list aka
probably the most important thing that
you will ever do for your career it's
not learning node it's not learning
javascript your hit list
hit list
is probably the most important thing you
will ever do for your career
so what is a hit list
a hit list
is
taking individuals that you're meeting
or sorry individuals that you want to
interact with for a job
literally adding them to a list and
networking and reaching out to them so
what we're going to wind up doing
is using the sheet
so you can do exclamation point sheet in
chat or click the link in the slides and
when you pull up the sheet you'll notice
there is two tabs
we have been using
this
how can i do this without me being in
the way hold on
we have been using the first tab for our
networking
but there is a second tab
for the hit list
all right and so if we look at the hit
list
we'll notice that there are quite a few
things on here you're going to see
company name
date added to spreadsheet url role
position type of position source name
per business company email applied date
application coffee chat
thank you date coffee chat interview
date so there's a lot of stuff here
and what we are
doing
is identifying companies that we want to
work at
adding these companies to our hit list
and then finding the points of contact
at those companies to reach out to
none of these are editable you have to
make your own copy you have to do file
make a copy this is my copy i don't need
you riffraff putting nonsense in here so
you make your you make your own copy and
um and then you can edit your own copy
so
your hit list
is legitimately a list
and what do i mean by list well
you are going to network your way in to
60 applications
let's say again you are going to network
your way into 60
applications
that means for 60 applications
you are going to be
recommended
not click apply you literally get a
referral
into that open position
[Music]
so
we're gonna have classes on how we do
this properly but the gist
is find open roles
that are in your area
that are things that are in your scope
of possibility entry-level software
engineering roles roles that require one
to three years of experience right
you're going to add these roles to your
sheet
and then you're going to start finding
people that actually work at these
companies
now
what people are we targeting
well
first we're going to find a hiring
manager
right so if there is a company that
we're interested in that has an open
opportunity
we're going to find the hiring manager
at that company now
typically
if you're like a really big company this
is gonna be hard to find
but most of us are not gonna be applying
to like big thousand two thousand plus
companies we're probably applying to
like 100 to 500 person companies
and so the first person you want to try
and find
is the hiring manager that's responsible
for that role so if it's a software
engineering role on a certain team
you're going to try and find the person
who has authority on that team
you're going to add them to your hit
list
you're going to follow them on twitter
you're going to find their email using
hunter io and you're going to ask for a
coffee chat
now we're gonna have a whole class on
this process like if you're freaking out
and panicking about how you do this
don't worry i'm gonna walk you through
it
if you go to our youtube we literally
have three classes where i do this live
like finding the opportunity finding the
person at the opportunity
figuring out how to contact them adding
them to my hit list like this is going
to be a whole class i'll give you a
taste
give you a taste but we're going to
literally have three classes where all i
do is put on hard edm music and do this
live
right and so
don't worry we're gonna do it together
but it's something you need to start
thinking about right now because this is
how you get a job
cool
so
uh you found a role
you added that role to your hit list you
put the name when you added it to the
hit list the url for the role probably
on something like angel list or
something like that you put the title
the role software engineer
um
type of position front end
source right like the like where you
found it angel list or whatever and this
is where you're gonna put your points of
contact you're to find the hiring
manager first
and your goal is to get a coffee chat
with that hiring manager
right
and
most of the time you're not going to be
like hey
i want to work at your company can we
talk no most of the time you're going to
say hey i saw that you work in
boston and that you're really into
typescript is something i've been
getting more into would you be up to
having a coffee chat i would love to
learn more about kind of how you got to
where you are and your your career as a
software engineer
right
so kind of wait a minute hold on leon
you mean that all the networking that
you've made us do
right all the networking made us do all
that outreach and getting coffee chats
you you mean to tell me that was all
preparing us to do that in a more
targeted way for the hit list yes
that's what it was the reason why we did
all of the networking and practice
before
was because we're getting practice to
make this part a little bit easier for
us
cool
so you're going to ask for a coffee chat
you're you're not going to be up front
you're not going to say like you have a
job i want to talk to you about the job
you're going to try and get to know them
a little bit
schmooze a little bit
and then if it comes up and a lot of
times it does come up like probably 70
of the time they'll say
hey we have an open role at the company
would you be interested and you'll go oh
you do have an open role you say
okay yeah would you mind referring me
for that role
and they'll go yeah sure i'll happily
refer you and open role you say exactly
right
but
if it doesn't come up during your
conversation be smooth play it cool
follow up the coffee chat say thank them
for their time
provide a little bit of value hey we you
told me that you you really like pokemon
i don't know if you saw they released
some new information about violet coming
out soon like here you go have a great
rest of your week
then two weeks later
right two weeks later after you've been
liking their stuff on twitter right
you've been retweeting some stuff here
or there send them another email
hey i see that
there's an open role at your company uh
if you remember we talked two weeks ago
i really enjoyed our conversation
would you mind referring me for this
open role
and they'll go yeah of course sure why
not we met your normal human being
you're a software engineer why not it's
an easy 5k for me if it works out
all right
it's not creepy folks it's networking
all right cool
so
99 of the time
they're gonna say yes because they want
the referral bonus it's how it works
right and so you've reached out to the
hiring manager you added them to the hit
list you followed them on twitter you
found their email you asked for a coffee
chat either it came up during the chat
or after two weeks of kind of
kind of letting the the the words simmer
and you kind of engaging with their
content online you get the
recommendation
right
it's not creepy
you know why because folks that get jobs
do this
and folks that don't understand how
folks get jobs
think it's creepy i know it's weird and
i know it's kind of a harsh thing to say
but vlaw said it best it's only weird if
you make it weird
right like being good at your career and
networking and uh getting to know folks
so that you can progress your career is
not it's not weird unless you make it
weird
and a lot of folks that
think it's weird is because they're not
good at the process and we're here to
get good at the process right
just because effect doesn't mean it's
not creepy no it it it it is effective
it's not creepy
networking is a big part of how we
operate in getting jobs
right and so if you are not doing this
know
that the tide is against you
and a lot of folks
that don't get jobs that wallow around
is because they never get good at this
process
because they're going up against folks
that are
doing this process if there's anything
that i can get into your brain
is that there are people out there
doing this process and they're doing it
really
well
and the excuses you come up with to not
do this process is what's going to hold
you back from getting better and better
jobs
and so i need you to take that to heart
right i need you to take that to heart
that there are folks that are playing
this game and getting phenomenal jobs
and if you're not playing this game you
are at a severe
disadvantage
and folks that are professionals
especially folks that are in hiring
positions
they know how this game is being played
right as someone that hired a lot of
folks
i expect people to be playing this game
if you're not playing this game you're
at a disadvantage
it's not creepy
it's networking
don't make it creepy though don't be the
weird person doing this
keep it professional
right keep it professional
no one wants to date you
right no one wants to date you
keep it professional provide value
right provide value
and this is how it works
won't they feel used no they're getting
they're getting 10k
they're getting five ten thousand
dollars because you did this
most places have
referral bonuses so literally by you
reaching out to them
and going through this process
they're getting ten thousand dollars
i'll take a coffee chat for ten thousand
dollars
you scratch my back i'll scratch yours
exactly but notice how i always said
provide value
even if someone's giving your time
notice the very first thing i say send
them a thank you thank them for their
time provide value in that moment right
it doesn't have to be a lot of value but
something that they mentioned give them
some value make it worth having talked
to you right
and then stay in contact once you get
the job it doesn't mean that this
process stops remember
software engineering is a cumulative
career
right meaning that you're gonna keep
growing you're gonna switch jobs maybe
maybe for your first kind of few years
every two years one year you're
switching to a new role well guess what
you're going to stay in touch with these
people maybe a little less frequently
right a little less frequently but you
stay in touch that you can keep up this
and keep getting new opportunities
if i wanted a new opportunity i'm never
applying anywhere
like if i wanted a new job i would i
wanted to make this clear like i'm not
applying anywhere
every
week for years i went to networking
events
i built up my network i had hundreds of
coffee chats and i still do coffee chats
with folks all the time
when i need a new role i'm never
applying anywhere i'm just going to talk
to someone in my network and say hey i
saw you have an open role do you mind
giving me the referral
and so if you don't have that network
yet
this is when it starts
and we're doing it in a targeted way
where we're targeting
60 companies that we know have open
roles that are in our area
right that are in our area or remote if
you're going remote and we're building
this foundation for your network for the
rest of your life
don't see this as a small transaction
see this is a transaction for the span
of your 20 to 40 year career
cool
all right now
you talk to the hiring manager
then find an engineer on the team
and do the same thing
right find an engineer on the team and
then do the same thing add them to your
hit list follow them on twitter find
their email ask for a coffee chat say
thank you provide value get the
recommendation
right
if it doesn't come up
right if it doesn't come up in that
initial coffee chat wait your two weeks
and then shoot your shot for the
recommendation
all right
so you've talked to the engineering
manager you talked to the engineer on
the team
then you talk to the recruiter
you're like leon why don't you talk to
the recruiter first well i'll tell you
why
why do you think i didn't talk to the
recruiter first
yeah now i got some names to drop
when i talk to the recruiter
i'm gonna say hey i talked to john i
talked to bob they're amazing people i
really had a good time getting to know
them me and bob went out for coffee last
week great guy
i saw that you have an open role and i
just wanted to see if there's anything i
could do to kind of push my application
along
and the recruiter's gonna go wait a
minute
you know bob
you know john
you met you met jane for coffee last
week
and they like you
they already like you
oh they like you
okay well let let's set up the interview
let's um let let's get you through to
the next round then
right if bob john and jane all know you
already
the recruiter would be
kind of
not a good recruiter
to send you to the next round
right they'd be kind of wild to not send
you to the next round
right
and so of course you're like oh you know
bob you know john you know jane all
right boom
next round
okay
and then when you get to the next round
who's going to interview you
probably bob
probably jane
probably john the folks you already
talked to
so can you see how
this process
might open a few more doors if you can
get this this thing going right because
if you've already talked to these people
you've already had coffee chats with
them
the recruiter already knows that you've
talked to them and know them maybe they
even referred you
and then the recruiter goes and looks
at your github and sees this
it's over
it's over it's a wrap it's a cut they're
not even going to interview other people
and so the thing i'll tell you about
last cohort
is that half
of the folks that got jobs last cohort
did not have technical interviews
you say let me say one more time for the
folks in the back
half the folks that got jobs last cohort
did not have technical interviews and
when i say things i mean like they
didn't do coding challenges
right
i mean they didn't do coding challenges
meaning that they talked to real living
breathing humans they showed them their
github they showed them the projects
that they built they had real
conversations with them about meaty
technical topics
and that was enough
because remember if you can make it to
the nerds it's really two questions can
you do i want to work with you for the
next two years
right
and so if you do all these things if all
your stuff is set up correctly
and
and you do the hit list process
and you get recommended
it's a wrap it's a game over you might
not even make it to the technical
interviews
now we're going to talk about technology
because we're all about open as many
doors as possible but i have had
hundreds of students
hundreds of students get jobs
without technical interviews because
they
they balled out on this process they
took their hit list
very
very seriously
this was their life for three months
this is it this is the big secret
it's the hit list
is it 60 people for 20 companies no it's
60 companies
that means you might be talking to 180
people
across these 60 companies
we don't get got
we go
right so you you found the hiring
manager boom you found the engineer on
the team boom you found the recruiter
boom you found their mama
boom
all on the hit list
right you add them to hit list you
follow them on twitter you find their
email you ask for a coffee chat you send
a thank you note and then you get the
recommendation
betty it's been amazing playing bridge
with you these past two weeks uh you
mentioned that your son john uh works at
such and such company could you give me
a connection to john please i would love
to to join an amazing company
such as your son john's
right now now this part's a little this
might be the creepy part yeah this is
the creepy part sorry this is where it
gets a little creepy so maybe maybe
maybe not therma but definitely
the hiring manager
the the engineers on the team the
recruiter uh maybe maybe we leave the
mama out of it i don't know like i said
i'm going to show you how to play the
game
it's up to you if you want to play it
i'm just saying
moms are kind of soft
all right they they they they just want
their their children to have more
friends
and uh if you come along and want to be
their their child's friend it might work
i don't know
mom sees mom sees their their child and
you and they're more like i don't know
like i said how you play the game it's
up to you
cool
but
at the end of the day
please
don't ever
ever
ever does this work ever does this
[Music]
ever ever ever ever
ever ever
ever ever ever ever ever ever
ever
and we say bye bye
beautiful all right
if we
do not ever
click apply it doesn't work you're
wasting your time
you're wasting your time
you might as well print out your resume
throw it in a trash can
have a car hit a raccoon way more likely
than you clicking
you're clicking apply please don't do it
it doesn't work get referred
all right
now
i said 60
networked
recommend so click apply how do i how do
i time out a mod let me see here sorry
never click apply so and we're talking
about 60 well networked applications
right we're talking about 60
well-networked applications it does
break down into some simple numbers
all right it does break down into some
simple numbers
first
you're going to have 30 high value
applications right
where for 30 of those 60 companies
you're going to have
customer custom resumes
cover letters and a story that matches
why you are showing up there
somebody give me a give me a a type of
company give me a company i don't care
a company does something
airbnb
all right airbnb
cool so we were a server at a restaurant
for 10 years that was a story we had
earlier um
for 10 years i worked in the service
industry every day i use software that i
hate it working on pos systems that
really just didn't work and so i
committed my knights to learning how to
code and started building software that
i would love to use on the job
eventually i started taking on clients
when the pandemic kit
i
realized two things were happening one
the service industry was being hit
but also
industries like airbnb were being hit as
well and so i started to build tools
that would help folks
during these difficult times and start
to take on more and more clients
eventually get tired with the cl with
the agency life and now i want to join a
product team such as yours at airbnb
where i can work on products that
increase everyone's lives but also
continue the work i did during the
pandemic to help folks find easier
accommodations and restaurants that were
covet safe
right i don't know like right off the
door right like just like you you tie
whatever it was your story into where
you're applying right and so if you know
you're applying to airbnb and you know
that you're in a service industry you
would build a small app right or
or tie your story into how that service
industry was uh equally wrecked as the
airbnb industry right and you can bring
that up as part of your story so
somebody that's airbnb is like oh yeah
we did have a rough time during covet
right did have a rough time at covet i i
see kind of like why you made that
transition that makes sense
right and so we can find a way for 30 of
our applications
to have a custom resume a custom cover
letter and a custom story
that matches that that company
well somebody come through with um
e1 hey thank you for the five get the
subs hope you're doing well thank you
for being here
right
and so
for 30 applications not only networking
in
right
all right not only networking in
but we're also doing a lot of custom
stuff for those those applications
then
we're going to have 10 premium
applications
10 premium applications where we do all
of that
plus we build a custom landing page on
our portfolio for that company
plus we
probably tweet something in relation to
that company maybe we make a blog post
about something in relation to that
company and we have a small project that
took like a day or two
right
a day or two
right a day or two
on
that application
right so 10 of them are going to be
pretty serious applications where
when you're talking to these engineers
when you're talking to the hiring
manager when you're talking to these
folks that we're talking to
right
now you have some more stuff to talk
about oh your air and baby well i did
make this little quick kind of like
reservation app i felt like most booking
sites have a really bad user experience
so here's my booking flow that i think
works best for a lot of folks
right so there's something really small
maybe took you a day or two to build out
a small little app
right and so
that is 30
well networked recommended
applications 10 super premium
applications where you've gone the extra
mile you built a little bit something
that you can bring up during those
interviews and then that leaves 20
others
20 others are just our generic
interviews
you're going to have 20 just generic
interviews where you try to get
recommended you go through that first
you make all your mistakes
and then you hit up your 30 and then you
hit up your 10.
all right
you talk about what you mean by a
landing page it's just a just a part of
your portfolio that's geared towards
that company
that's all it is
yeah
oh danny dropping some heat about the
resumes
and we gotta we gotta we gotta get you
on stream so we can we can dig into
resumes a little bit with you that'd be
cool
i'll reach out to you on twitter
so we talked about 60
60 well-networked recommended
applications
right 60
30 where it's going to be our high value
apps we're doing individual work for
each of them
10 premium and then 20
where we were testing the water because
out of 60
and this is where we take some of the
stress off of our shoulder
out of the 60 networked
hey
i appreciate it i appreciate it i'll
reach out to you
cool
out of the 60
you have to understand no matter how
well we do this process
no matter how well we network our way in
no matter how well we do this entire
process we're going to have 10
interviews
that just go horribly wrong
like
just slap their mama by accident wrong
right
just
you yeah you just you you just sneeze
and snot goes all over the interviewer
right bad right we just know we're gonna
we're gonna have 10 of them
right
leave the mamas alone you're calling
them you're doing the yeah all right
we'll leave the mama's alone right that
just go absolutely horrendous and that's
okay that's why we do 60.
right that's why we do 60.
10 are gonna go absolutely horrendously
wrong
40 are gonna go okay
and ten are where the magic happens
where all the little things we talked
about tonight come together in just that
perfect way you hit it off with the
interviewer in the right way and it
leads to passing that sniff test with
flying colors it leads into an interview
process that just works
right
and so we got to give ourselves these 60
so we can get through 10 that go really
bad 40 where we learn our lessons and 10
that just goes really
well
should we dress for an interview in the
suit
so the thing i always like is you dress
one level above the folks that you're
interviewing with so
if they wear t-shirts and shorts you
wear nice pants and a button-up or a
nice blouse right and so just i always
say like one level over
if you're at a fintech company and
they're all wearing like button-ups
and and and like a tie then then you
wear a suit right um but you can ask
and a lot of this right
a lot of this a lot of this like
interviewing and we're going to talk
about this a little bit further in a lot
of it is just going into this with a
game plan
you can always ask i don't know why
anybody talks about this you can always
ask your interview
what you're what you're going into
you can always ask your interview
interviewer hey
i have an interview set up for friday
what is that interview going to be like
is it behavioral is it technical
and should i
what's the dress code like at the office
is there something i should be wearing
what a normal folks interview where
right
you should always ask always ask
fintech is financial technology
right you can always ask and so you
should always ask what the interview is
going to be like you should always ask
what you're walking into so that's not a
guess
cool don't worry we haven't gotten to
behavioral interviews we haven't gotten
into like the actual process yet
that's coming up so that doesn't make
too much no way we're going to get there
all right
some other things we have to add to our
list folks i told you there's a lot of
work to be done a lot of work to be done
well not only do we have all of our
professional stuff in a line all of our
online presence in a line not only have
we invested time into our hit list
finding great opportunities getting
referrals into these opportunities but
we're also going to have a hundred hours
project a hundred dollars project is the
culmination of everything that we learn
here at 100 devs and we put all of that
knowledge into one
project
a project that you've built on your own
that you've built from scratch that
you've loved and nurtured across 100
hours so that when you're in an
interview
right when you're in an interview
you can show this project off
this project is what has gotten people
jobs when they say
what show me that you can code when you
try to pass that
coding sniff test they can look at your
100 project and see oh
they know how to code not only
have they been pushing a code wars every
day not only do they have amazing stuff
on their github portfolio but they have
this project that they know intimately
that they've built over the course of a
hundred hours
right
that you can bring up during your
interviews that can highlight all the
things that you know and all the things
that you learned
it's really important
the other point of 100 hours project
is tying your past
into your current reality
right so whatever you did in the past
right
whatever you did in the past
we can
ease the story to where you are now with
100 hours project
it's a way of tying what you were
doing before to what you are doing now
if you are a server you could build a a
point of sale system if you were a
teacher you could build tools for the
classroom if you
uh were a janitor you could build
a mapping system for the building so you
can clean more efficiently it doesn't
matter you can tie what you did before
into your abilities as a software
engineer to show that progression
and make it so that it seems
like you like you've been writing that
code with a purpose and a point
right to get to where you are now
so not only does it stand as a thing
that you can use to help you during
interviews but it helps you tie up all
those loose ends as to why you are here
right now
and why you're a phenomenal software
engineer
and highlighting your past experiences
to make you a better engineer
cool
so
next week
next week i want to know what your 100
project is which means you got a week a
good a good weekend to think through it
right a good weekend to think through it
i want a quick description
and a wireframe a wireframe is just like
a high level drawing
right a high level drawing of what
you're going to build
uh it doesn't have to be fancy if you
want to be fancy you can use things like
wireframe.cc
figma which are both free i think
basamic is paid now
or you could just literally draw it and
take a photo i don't care
all right you just draw and take a photo
that's good enough for me very very
simple
but think through what you want to build
give me a description and then give me a
quick
wireframe
break out your nuns exactly
and we're going to talk more about these
projects of course as the time goes on
but just think of an idea and then over
the next couple weeks i'll help you mold
that idea into something that's
practical and doable for your 100
project we're going to start what are
called mvps minimum viable products like
the simplest thing we can do
to prove our point
right and as we get better at the back
end and we learn more we'll be able to
flesh out better what's more and more
doable but i want the idea what what's
the angle you're going for and i need
that next week
all right
now
this is a lot
covered a lot tonight a lot of things
and we're not done yet
we we still got like we still got like
12 minutes or so normal class time and
we still got a lot more to cover we
haven't we haven't even gotten to the
interviews yet we haven't even gotten to
how to interview yet
i told you it was a lot i told you all
have a decision to make
you all have a decision to make
and for those that make the decision
that they want to go on this process go
on this journey
once you make that decision
the rest of your life can change
in so many phenomenal
wonderful ways
it can just change
and so we're talking about three months
of hard work
three months of lots of little things to
get done
lots of things we talked about so many
different pieces tonight so many other
things to do but i'm telling you
three months of hard work
of going beast mode can change your
whole life
it's the best thing about
working in this space
is to see folks that when they showed up
they have that fire in their eye they
know nothing's going to stop themselves
they put in the work
right they put in the work
and at the end they get a phenomenal job
so
like i said i've never i've taught
thousands of people
there's nothing that i've ever been able
to point to
that aptitude wise told me if they were
going to get a job or not
like when they came in they were really
good at javascript and like that's no
it's never been how good they were at
code
it was never really what they did before
there have been some weird things
teachers do really well and uber drivers
i said this before i've never had an
uber driver that didn't make it
there's something about the hustle and i
think teachers know the grind more than
anyone else and so they've always done
really well so maybe that's there's two
other things i look for
but the only other thing i've ever seen
across thousands of students
is folks that that made that decision
they said hey leon i want it
and i'm going to do what it takes to get
there because it's a lot
it's a lot
there's going to be a lot of rejection
there's going to be a lot of doubt
there's going to be a lot of muck to get
through in the trough of sorrow that we
have left
but the folks that made that decision
that came in the class the next day and
said leon i want it
they all [__] got it
it's beautiful
it really is beautiful
and so i hope i really do
that everyone today
makes that decision
and realizes that it's not enough to
want it
it's not enough to kinda want it gotta
really want it you gotta know that you
gotta flip that switch in your brain
that says the next three months are
gonna be hard
i'm gonna have stuff to do every single
day
i might not be privileged with a lot of
time but i'm to figure out how to make
it work
the folks that make that decision they
get jobs
but you can't kind of want it
so
i hope i really do got a lot of people
here tonight i'm so happy that you're
all here
but i hope that you make that decision
you decide to go beast mode for a few
months
because the grass is so much prettier
to have a job that you know is high paid
high growth
super in demand phenomenal benefits year
after year is one of the happiest
careers
that can support you and a family that
you don't need a degree and you can
learn it for free it's magic there's a
window open right now
i have no idea how long that window will
be open for
but let's get as many of us through it
as possible
word
all right
so on thursday
we're gonna talk about interviewing
right we're going to talk about
interviewing because there's a lot of
secrets about how to do the interview
process everything we talked about
tonight was passing that initial
sniff test so we can get to the
interview stage
right so we can get to the interview
stage
and then we have to cover all this
wonderful stuff about the process how do
you interview how do you prepare how do
you get better at behavioral questions
technical questions how do you do
technical whiteboarding how do you
prepare for the whiteboard how do you go
through the whiteboarding skills all the
stuff that we have to get through so
when we come back on thursday
we got some bangers
to get through
some some some some more of the pure
heat that i have that i've learned over
the years right to help folks do well
during the interview process so you have
any anxiety if you're worried about how
to do well in the actual interview
you're gonna come back on thursday
and we're gonna we're gonna i'm gonna
give you all the secrets i got because
i've had folks that literally could not
solve
the simplest of code wars that after
they kind of get these tips and tricks
in their brain
things change they get better at coding
challenges they get go on to do well
during technical interviews and so
please
start putting into practice the things
that we talked about tonight and then
get ready to come back on
on thursday because i got a lot
a lot of heat to bring on thursday uh it
just
it's a it's a whole other ballpark that
we got to get through but once you know
how to interview well
the world changes
right so we got a lot of stuff to get to
on thursday uh i want to do a raid
uh let's go and do a raid uh let's
spread some love and positivity like we
always do if you're not followed give
them a follow
go over to juice box and say hello
or the juicebox hero hope you had some
fun tonight i hope you learned some
things we're going to get a little bit
of review in tomorrow on on thursday but
then we will
get to so much more stuff there's still
so much more stuff to do um you'll
notice that there is some homework in
discord please take a look at that
homework uh make sure that you're
starting to think through
uh your your your professional stuff
watch this back if you need to and i
will see all you wonderful folks on
thursday
let's read
yes youtube